# Understanding-Canadian-Smokers-through-survey
The goal of this survey is to gain a better understanding of the smoking habits and reasons as to why those who smoke continue to do so despite knowing the risks associated.

The purpose of the survey is to gain a better understanding of the habits and reasons as to why Canadian smokers continue to smoke, in order to do this the sample population needs to be diverse and representative of the entire Canadian smoking population. In order to implement this survey, one proposed method is to conduct the survey in online Canadian smokers help forums such the smokers help line forum [3]. These forums are specifically made to act as a support groups and discussion forums where Canadians smokers can congregate and discuss their smoking habits. By conducting our survey in these forums we are able to reach a large and diverse set of Canadian smokers from all provinces and territories, which helps us to reduce sampling bias. In addition, it is important to make our survey as anonymous as possible while still trying to analyze the habits and reasons people continue to smoke in order to limit the non-response bias in the survey. Within the survey the target populations is the population of Canadians who smoke cigarettes. However, since the proposed survey procedure will conduct the survey in online Canadian smokers forums, the frame population is all the Canadian smokers who visit the forums where the survey is being conducted. Lastly, the sample population will be those in the Canadian smokers forums who decide to participate in the survey.  

Some of the advantages of conducting the survey in these online forums is that the survey is able to reach a large and diverse amount of Canadian smokers. Since these forums are visited by tens of thousands of Canadians, this method will allow us to mitigate the sampling bias in our analysis and help us understand the habits of a wide array of Canadian smokers. However, there are drawbacks in using this method which include the fact that this survey will exclude those who do not visit these forums. Our sample population would not include those who do not regularly use the internet and this may limit the ability to generalize of our survey. Furthermore, since the survey answers are voluntary and online where the participants are not vetted at all, this may lead to responses that may need to be vetted out. 
